We have only a few options to conduct a scientific experiment in the absence of gravity.
The test can be done aboard an international spacecraft, but it is very expensive and achievable if you do not have close friends in the space agency.
The experiment can be placed in cubesat and launched into orbit, but it is also expensive.
We can experiment with weightless aircraft that accelerate to the ground with a precise acceleration that causes weight loss.
But that requires a lot of initial preparations, secondary costs unrelated to the experiment, and burning of the fuel. Fortunately, there is a last option ....
This tower is a free fall tower at the University of Bremen in Germany.
Inside it contains a completely empty giant compartment.
As the pumps emptied the room from the air within 90 minutes, which means that the room is ready to conduct free fall experiments.
There is a vehicle to fall.
In this experiment, we study the procedure of separating the charges in the case of static electricity.
In the free fall period, we will launch glass granules in an intense direction. We have plenty of time to track down tiny particles and do the exact measurements we can not do in normal gravity.
The acceleration caused by the Earth's gravity is about 10 meters per second per second, and in the absence of air reluctance, the vehicle falls too fast.
In the first second after the escape, the capsule drops 10 meters
The next second, 20 meters.
The next second, 30 meters.
The next second, 40 meters.
And then reach the ground after passing the full length of the tower.
For another second, we have to lift the experiment 50 meters, half the current height.
But there is something very clever that can be done ... The experiment can be started first before falling.
We first put the experiment into a fall vehicle.
This is the complete experience with all its tools, parts and computer that controls it.
We throw the vehicle up at close to 30 ground gravity for 200 milliseconds, and then get about 10 seconds of weightlessness.
The slowdown that follows this fall at the end of the experiment is estimated at about 35 to 50 land.
You should imagine what happens in the event of an acceleration starting for a long time, causing the crash of the vehicle or roof of the tower collision situation, which could damage the vacuum within the tower, which is our most important.
We balance the weight center of the vehicle along the vertical axis within the limits of possible accuracy, by hanging the weight blocks in certain places on the cart.
In this center we have many experiments in the field of fluid mechanics, ignition, fluid properties, biology, physics and space. In general all fields of basic physics.
Although the certification is difficult but the vehicle is already weightless during the whole trip up and down.
External forces are the same in case of free fall, even if the direction of the movement changes before us.
Now is the launch date ...
The accelerator will first blow the vehicle up within nine seconds, and then replace the accelerator with a stack of 8mm polyester sheets in preparation for the vehicle's return and violent landing.
I would like to thank the staff of the University of Bremen, the crew of the Freefall Tower, and the researchers who are experimenting today!
There is more information in the Video Description section